This is also a brief theory of how to play Magic better. Today I'll talk about how to find whether your opponent have a card or not.
first let's see how to determine if your opponent have a card or not. For example, if your opponent pass with 2 islands(blue mana) and 1 mountains(red mana), you will think about the counterspells(cancel ,mistical dispute, or the others) and the burn instants(fry, slaying fire......). This suggests what your opponent might do and is a good thinking way.
However, making sure that your opponont will not do something is more difficult. Sometimes it may be easy, because you are sure that your opponent have no way to make it. For example, in an Throne of Eldrain draft, there are only 2 ways to deal 5 damage to a creature (in instant) for red-Fling and Searing Barrage. So if your red-green opponent do not have a creature with 5 attack and only have 4 lands, they have no way to kill a 5-toughness creature by 1 card. This is a simple way to make sure your opponent can't do something.
However, another way to get information is through your opponent's action. Let's start it from a story.(borrowed from Chinese article https://www.iyingdi.com/web/article/search/82105) In a M20 draft, your opponent is a white-green deck. in second turn, your opponent play a "Woodland Champion". In 3rd turn, he use it to attack. You will not block it because you are afraid that your opponent have a "Raise the Alarm", if you really understand what I said in the first part. He passed his 3rd turn without casting any spell. Then, in the 4th turn, he uses it to attack again. Differently, this time you'd better use your 3/3 to block it. Why? Because if your opponent really have it, he would cast it at his 3rd turn to save 2 mana. 
This leads to the core way of thinking. The key is to think if your opponent have a better way to cast the spell. If your opponent "will cast it last turn if he have", you can do your decision as your opponent do not have it. Even though this may not be always right, it is a easy and efficient way to think.